If there's one thing I know about history, it's that these things tend to be very messy. It's not clear cut, at least not to everyone, and it isn't at all obvious to everyone how big (or small) something will be. 

I highly doubt that those who voted for the compromise of 1850 knew a short 10 years later there would be a civil war. Residents of Virginia or Pennsylvania or Georgia probably didn't really consider it either and went on living their lives. In retrospect, with the time compression we can afford to look back on in history we know how serious the issue was. 

I fear this is where we are now, only even messier. No longer are we divided by geography, but instead a more sinister and pervasive ideological divide that wouldn't lead to clean north-south division, but horrible political violence and insurrection within communities. Something more akin to warlord fail-states. Rural areas are blood red, urban areas are deep blue.

We keep talking about bringing down the temperature but at the very least (as of writing), we have 3 more years of division. The president does not have one ounce of grace, apology, understanding in his body, not one. I don't think I have ever once heard him say good things about the opposition and I say that word deliberately. He will tolerate democrats who praise him, republicans who vote for him; it doesn't matter as long as you are on his side; but the nebulous, amorphous "they" is always on the tip of his tongue yet never clearly defined. Maybe that's to our benefit because it doesn't create clear enemies.

Nevertheless, the more we hurtle down this road of division, authoritarianism, illiberalism, the clearer the picture is. In the wake of the Kirk assassination, media personalities are being cancelled by the government. The president is actively calling to cancel yet more, any who disagree with him. He's threatening to root out "radical left", whatever that means. Already, ICE agents are wearing masks, the national guard is being called to cities and states that do not want them there. The president has threatened to "get rid of" or "overrule" the democratically elected politicians who govern those areas. 

It feels like our entire lives as children in this country are dominated by an education centered on the greatness of the American people, ever against tyranny and dictators, and yet we are here. Congress has totally derelict its duties, not said one word about tariffs yet the power to levy taxes squarely lays with congress. States are redistricting to benefit their parties, at the behest of the president. The president rules by executive order and the courts. Half the country even *wants* this. They cheer, jeer, and laugh at liberal tears and roughed up immigrants seeking asylum.

And the rest of the country sits idly by; myself included, and it tears at me. Sometimes I stew in red-hot rage. Others I resign myself to "this is what they voted for". Yet age-old quotes it seems like we've all read in preparation for a moment like this keep ringing in my head: "first they came for the communists". I thought we were all taught in school that this country was great because of democracy, separation of church and state, separation of powers. When did we forget about congress? When did we choose the president is simply an elected dictator, some kind of enlightened despot like the pre-American thinkers wanted from their leaders? 

What's worst to me is that the opposition leaders in the house and senate have done little and the people are so starved of support that some are fawning over the governor of California for simply trolling the president. Simply put, my fear is that most of the country is not blind but too apathetic to care. There is a small, vocal minority and there are glimmers of hope; but I look around and see the same battles lost every time any real change is put in front of voters. It's not the voters responsible for their government failures, it's some political "other" group sabotaging my team: immigrants, transplants, moneyed interests, Californians, city-slickers, billionaires, Blackrock, out-of-power-democRATs. 

The battle is already lost. A fucking fascist is in the white house, and people forget that it's by popular vote. Veterans of old would and should be rolling in their graves with disgust. 

The only way out is forward, through. Which is where the glimmers of hope come in. Finally people are waking up (and I hate to use that term, really) to the failure of do-nothing neoliberalism. The only question is, teetering on the edge, can we tilt the right way? All too often to blame on out-groups I see the age old responses to government request to make real change: government is wasteful, they can't do anything, don't put housing in my neighborhood. There are people out there making headway who seem to be able to walk the line nicely, but I'm skeptical. I fall squarely in the "I won't be surprised, but I'll believe it when I see it" category. Prove me wrong. 

 



